In this Newsletter:
LifeNight - our annual community celebration
ACT Veterans Hockey - History
President's Message
NSW Championships
BBQ at Tuggeranong Hockey Complex
National Masters Hockey update
World Masters Hockey update
Contact us

Life Night
On Monday 8 July the ACT Masters Association will hold its annual community celebration, LifeNight. Being dreamers your committee hopes the night will do many things, including:

Bring together past and present Masters players, their friends and families to celebrate what a great life this sport has given us

Raise some funds for a number of charities that support our community. Last year we contributed to the Cancer Support Group, Prostate Cancer Support Group - ACT Region Inc. and the ACT Cancer Council

Give players a chance to meet and play with a different group of players.

This year the night will have two distinct elements:

STATE OF ORIGIN HOCKEY!
Almost. Based on registrations we will be inviting teams to represent Northside, Southside and Outside in a competition played in three age groups. 
If you haven’t been invited to play by 4 June, make sure you are registered, paid up and then contact Leo Clarke

The social thing
After play is completed ACT Masters will host a social event in the bar, featuring food and lucky door prizes, games of skill and anything we can think of to add to our donation.
There is no cost for the night, but all players are asked to donate a minimum of $10 to our charities. You should of course bring all your change in case you would like to go in the sweep for first Green card, or if you receive any green card.
 

ACT Veterans Hockey - History
From Humble Beginnings…

Few in the ACT know of the long history of Vets Hockey in the ACT. It started from humble beginnings way back in 1980. That year, the Western Australian Hockey Association (WAHA), initiated the idea of an Australian Veterans Hockey Carnival, to be played in Perth.

At that time, only WAHA had a Veterans competition (of 20 teams). As a credit to its foresight, the WAHA saw that Veterans Hockey had a place in the game. Then, and for a few years afterwards, it was a view not shared by many in the game across the other states (including the ACT).

WAHA was successful in its plans, and a National Carnival comprising eight teams was held in Perth over the period 11-15 August, 1980. All five major states (WA, SA, VIC, NSW, and QLD), as well as the “minnow” ACT, were represented. WA with its strength fielded three sides.

In the ACT, with no Veterans competition, it fell to an individual (Grant Waddell - United) to organise a team. Just enough players (all ex-first graders) responded to the “call”. They were: Tom Boag (Waratah); Des Biddle (Central); Mick Edwards (Old Canberrans); Egbert Fernandes (St Pats); Ross Jones (Central); Cec Hunter (United); Vince O’Connor (Central); Tony Barley (Wests); Graham Walker (Central. Capt/Coach); and, Ray King (Barton). Grant Waddell was Manager, and part-time player. Don Whitbred (Old Canberrans) and Brian Bird (Central) as Manager had been included in the programmed team, but did not attend.
Supplemented by a couple of WA players unable to gain selection in the WA sides, the ACT did well. It lost one game (to WA State), and was the only side to defeat the ultimate winners NSW.

There has been a down side to all of this. Because of the unexpected success of the ACT, or maybe the minnow status which it has to this day, the Australian Masters Hockey Association have never acknowledged the participation of ACT in that Carnival. 

Des Biddle and Vince O’Connor. May, 2019.

President’s Message
Following on from Des and Vince’s history lesson, the next stage for Masters Hockey was the Monday night competition. The competition consisted of 4-6 teams from the eighties till 2000, and then it started to grow to where we are now. I think we have this format down pat and it is now time to consider changes that will continue to support and grow our association.  One of my aims for a few years has been to build to a point where an aged competition was possible. The Lifenight competition is intended to dip a toe in the water of dividing our competition into age groups. Will it work? I hope you all come out on July 8 and give it a go. I don’t expect change this year, but who knows what 2020 will bring?

NSW Championships
The NSW over 65s were recently held in Newcastle at the start of May. Goulburn fielded teams in Division 1 and 2. Both sides performed creditably to finish third after the rounds. In Division 1 a close 2-3 loss to eventual winners Southern Highlands proved to be the difference.

BBQ at Tuggeranong Hockey Complex
You may have noticed that a new permanent BBQ has been constructed at the Tuggeranong Hockey Complex. This was the initiative of the Master’s Association with the cooperation of Hockey ACT. The cost has been met by the Master’s
Association and has been donated to HACT, as were the two AED devices located  at Lyneham and Tuggeranong. 

Teams that play at Tuggeranong are encouraged to use the facility and continue the Masters tradition of socialisation as well as competitive hockey.

National Masters Hockey update
Hockey Australia has announced that Wollongong will host the 2019 Masters Indoor Challenge at the Illawarra Hockey Stadium. The Women's Masters Indoor Challenge will be played from Friday 29 November to Sunday 1 December and Men's Masters Indoor Challenge will be played Friday 6 December to Sunday 8 December. The Indoor Masters Challenge was held for the first time late last year in Goulburn, aiding preparation before our Australian teams which participated for the first time at the Masters Indoor World Cup in Hong Kong in February with great results.

World Masters Hockey update
World Masters Hockey (WMH) have set the dates for the World Cup 2020 Tournaments and have agreed to provisionally award Tournaments to the following National Associations:
1. O35&O40 Men & Women, England, 8 to 17 August
2. O45&O50 Men & Women, South Africa, 19 to 29 September
3. O55 Men, O55, O60, O65 Women & Spirit of Masters Men & Women, South Africa, 19 to 29 September
4. O60, O65, O70, O75 & Tournament Trophy Men, Japan, 5-15 November
WMH are currently in the process of finalising the hosting agreements and venues with the selected hosts and a more detailed announcement will be made once these have been finalised. These tournaments reflect the new format designed by World Masters Hockey for the future.
A date change has been announced for the World Cup events hosted by Japan.  The new dates will allow for the third Olympic pitch in Tokyo to be utilised which is considered by the WMH board to be in the best interests of the tournament.

The first men’s Over 80 international hockey match was held at BHV Push, Breda, Holland on 24th April 2019 between England and the Netherlands.
The match was overseen by a technical officer of WGMA who checked that the match was run according to FIH rules. All this was thought necessary in order to obtain an entry in the Guinness Book of Records.


Contact Us
Screech Newsletter: Ian Smith
Monday night competition: Leo Clarke
Thursday Hockey Happy hour: Leo Clarke
Nationals: Doug Dawson
